CHAPTER V. OF PROVERBS. KING JAMES' VERSION.
This LibriVox recording is in the public domain, recording by Michael Packard.
My son, attend unto my wisdom, and bow thine ear to my understanding, that thou mayest
regard discretion, and that thy lips may keep knowledge, for the lips of a strange woman
drop as in honeycomb, and her mouth is smoother than oil, but her end is bitter as wormwood,
sharp as a two-edged sword. Her feet go down to death, her steps take hold on hell, lest
thou shouldest ponder the path of life her ways are movable, that thou canst not know
them. Hear me now, therefore, O ye children, and depart not from the words of my mouth,
remove thy way far from her, and come not nigh the door of her house, lest thou give
thine honour unto others, and thy years unto the cruel, lest strangers be filled with thy
wealth and thy labours be in the house of a stranger. And thou mourn at the last, when
thy flesh and thy body are consumed, and say, How have I hated instruction? and my heart
despised reproof, and have not obeyed the voice of my teachers, nor inclined mine ear
to them that instructed me. I was almost in all evil in the midst of the congregation
and assembly. Drink waters out of thine own cistern, and running waters out of thine own
well. Let thy fountains be dispersed abroad, and rivers of water in the streets, let them
be only thine own, and not strangers with thee, let thy fountain be blessed, and rejoice
with the wife of thy youth. Let her be as the loving hind and pleasant row, let her
breasts satisfy thee at all times, and be thou ravished always with her love. And why
wilt thou, my son, be ravished with a strange woman, and embrace the bosom of a stranger?
For the ways of man are before the eyes of the Lord, and he pondereth all his goings.
His own iniquities shall take the wicked himself, and he shall be holden with the cords of his
sins. He shall die without instruction, and in the greatness of his folly he shall go
astray.